---
layout: default
title: "arcgis-pro cookbook"
category: cookbooks
item: arcgis-pro
version: 3.8.0
latest: false
---

# arcgis-pro cookbook

This cookbook installs and configures ArcGIS Pro.

### Supported ArcGIS Pro versions

* 2.0
* 2.1
* 2.2
* 2.3
* 2.4
* 2.5
* 2.6
* 2.7
* 2.8
* 2.9

### Platforms

* Windows 10
* Windows Server 2012 (R2)
* Windows Server 2016
* Windows Server 2019
* Windows Server 2022

### Dependencies

The following cookbooks are required:

* windows
* arcgis-repository

Attributes
----------

* `node['arcgis']['pro']['version']` = ArcGIS Pro version. Default version is `2.9`
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['setup_archive']` = Path to the ArcGIS Pro setup archive. Default value depends on `node['arcgis']['pro']['version']` attribute value.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['setup']` = The location of the ArcGIS Pro setup msi. Default location is `C:\Temp\ArcGISPro\ArcGISPro.msi`.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['install_dir']` = ArcGIS Pro installation directory. Default installation directory is `%ProgramFiles%\ArcGIS\Pro`.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['blockaddins']` = Configures the types of add-ins that ArcGIS Pro will load. Default value is `'0'`.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['portal_list']` = ArcGIS Portal URLs. Default value is `https://www.arcgis.com/`.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['allusers']` = Defines installation context of ArcGIS Pro (1 - per machine, 2 - per user). Default value is '1'.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['software_class']` = ArcGIS Pro software class `<Viewer|Editor|Professional>`. Default value is `Viewer`.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['authorization_type']` = ArcGIS Pro authorization_type `<SINGLE_USE | CONCURRENT_USE | NAMED_USER>`. Default value is `NAMED_USER`.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['esri_license_host']` = Host name of ArcGIS License Manager. Default host name is `%COMPUTERNAME%`.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['authorization_file']` = ArcGIS Pro authorization file path.
* `node['arcgis']['pro']['lock_auth_settings']` = During a silent, per-machine installation of ArcGIS Pro, if the authorization type is defined, this attribute is set to true under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Esri\ArcGISPro\Licensing. When the lock_auth_settings attribute is set to true, the licensing settings in the registry apply to all ArcGIS Pro users on that machine; an individual user cannot make changes. To allow ArcGIS Pro users on the machine to define their own authorization settings through the ArcGIS Pro application, set lock_auth_settings to false. This property does not apply to a per-user installation. The default value is `false`.
* `node['arcgis']['repository']['archives']` = Path to the folder with the ArcGIS software setup archives. Default path is `%USERPROFILE%\Software\Esri`.
* `node['arcgis']['repository']['patches']` = Path to the folder with hot fixes and patches for ArcGIS Pro software. The default path is `%USERPROFILE%\Software\Esri\Patches`.
* `node['arcgis']['patches']['local_patch_folder']` = Path to a local folder with hot fixes and patches for ArcGIS Pro software. The default path is `%USERPROFILE%\Software\Esri\Patches`.
* `node['ms_dotnet']['version']` = Microsoft .NET Framework version. The default version is `4.8`.
* `node['ms_dotnet']['setup']` = Microsoft .NET Framework setup path. The default path is `%USERPROFILE%\Software\Esri\ndp48-x86-x64-allos-enu.exe`.
* `node['ms_dotnet']['url']` = Microsoft .NET Framework setup URL. The default URL is `https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2088631`.

Recipes
-------

### arcgis-pro::default

Installs and authorizes ArcGIS Pro.

### arcgis-pro::install_pro

Installs ArcGIS Pro.

### arcgis-pro::ms_dotnet

Installs Microsoft .NET Framework.

> If the Microsoft .NET Framework setup is not found at the path specified by the `node['ms_dotnet']['setup']` attribute, it is downloaded from the URL specified by the `node['ms_dotnet']['url']` attribute.

### arcgis-pro::uninstall

Uninstalls ArcGIS Pro.

### arcgis-pro::patches

Installs ArcGIS Pro patches.

