---
layout: default
title: "arcgis-egdb cookbook"
category: cookbooks
item: arcgis-egdb
version: 1.0.2
latest: false
---

# arcgis-egdb cookbook

The arcgis-egdb cookbook creates enterprise geodatabases in SQL Server or PostgreSQL databases and registers them with ArcGIS Server.

## Platforms

* Windows 8 (8.1)
* Windows 10
* Windows Server 2008 (R2)
* Windows Server 2012 (R2)
* Windows Server 2016
* Windows Server 2019
* Windows Server 2022
* Ubuntu Server 18.04 and 20.04 LTS
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server 8
* SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15
* Oracle Linux 8

## Database Servers

The cookbook was tested with:

* Amazon RDS for SQL Server
* Amazon RDS for PostgerSQL
* Amazon Aurora PostgerSQL-compatible

## Dependencies

The following cookbooks are required:

* arcgis-enterprise

The cookbook uses ArcPy to create and enable geodatabases. ArcPy is installed by the ArcGIS Server setup.

ArcPy does not support creating databases in Amazon RDS database servers. The cookbook uses the sqlcmd and psql utility for SQL Server and PostgreSQL database servers respectively to create the databases. The 'sqlcmd' and 'psql' recipes could be used to install these utilities. ArcGIS Data Store and Portal for ArcGIS include an embedded PostgreSQL client with the psql utility that can be used by the arcgis-egdb cookbook.

## Attributes

* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['engine']` = DB engine `<nil|postgres|sqlserver-se>`. Default DB engine is `nil`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['endpoint']` = DB instance endpoint domain name. Default endpoint is `nil`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['keycodes']` = ArcGIS Server license file path. Default path is `node['arcgis']['server']['keycodes']`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['master_username']` = RDS DB instance master username. Default username is `EsriRDSAdmin`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['master_password']` = RDS DB instance master user password. Default password is `nil`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['db_username']` = Geodatabase username. Default username is `sde`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['db_password']` = Geodatabase user password. Default password is `node['arcgis']['egdb']['master_password']`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['postgresbin']` = Path to PostgreSQL client bin directory. Default path is `C:\Program Files\ArcGIS\DataStore\framework\runtime\pgsql\bin` on Windows and `/arcgis/datastore/framework/runtime/pgsql/bin` on Linux.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['sqlcmdbin']` = Path to Miscrosoft SQL Server Client SDK ODBC Tools 17 Binn directory. Default path is `C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\Client SDK\ODBC\170\Tools\Binn` on Windows.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['connection_files_dir']` = Directory path for geodatabase connection files (.sde) created by the recipes. Default directory is `node['arcgis']['misc']['scripts_dir']/connection_files`.
* `node['arcgis']['egdb']['data_items']` = Array with properties of geodatabases. Default value is as follows:

  ```JSON
  [{
    "database" : "egdb",
    "data_item_path" : "/enterpriseDatabases/registeredDatabase",
    "connection_file": "C:\\chef\\misc_scripts\\connection_files\\RDS_egdb.sde",
    "is_managed" : true,
    "connection_type" : "shared"
  }]
  ```

## Recipes

### arcgis-egdb::default

Creates an enterprise geodatabase and registers it with ArcGIS Server.

### arcgis-egdb::sql_alias

Creates EGDBHOST alias for SQL Server endpoint domain.

### arcgis-egdb::egdb_postgres

Creates an enterprise geodatabase in PostgreSQL.

### arcgis-egdb::egdb_sqlserver

Creates an enterprise geodatabase in SQL Server.

### arcgis-egdb::register_egdb

Registers the enterprise geodatabase with the specified ArcGIS Server site as the site's managed database.

### arcgis-egdb::sqlcmd

Installs Microsoft SQL Server ODBC drivers and command line utilities used by the SQL Server enterprise geodatabase configuration scripts.


## Usage


```json
{
  "arcgis": {
    "version": "10.7",
    "server": {
      "private_url": "https://domain.com:6443/arcgis",
      "admin_username": "admin",
      "admin_password": "changeit"
    },
    "python": {
      "runtime_environment": "C:\\Python27\\ArcGISx6410.7"
    },
    "misc": {
      "scripts_dir": "C:\\chef\\misc_scripts"
    },
    "egdb": {
      "engine": "postgres",
      "endpoint": "xxx.cluster-yyy.us-east-2.rds.amazonaws.com",
      "keycodes": "C:\\Program Files\\ESRI\\License10.7\\sysgen\\keycodes",
      "master_username": "EsriRDSAdmin",
      "master_password": "changeit",
      "db_username": "sde",
      "db_password": "changeit",
      "connection_files_dir": "C:\\chef\\misc_scripts\\connection_files",
      "data_items": [{
        "database": "egdb",
        "data_item_path": "/enterpriseDatabases/registeredDatabase",
        "connection_file": "C:\\chef\\msic_scripts\\connection_files\\RDS_egdb.sde",
        "is_managed": true,
        "connection_type": "shared"
      }]
    }
  },
  "run_list": [
    "recipe[arcgis-egdb]"
  ]
}
```
