---
layout: default
title: "Upgrade base ArcGIS Enterprise on single machine"
category: tutorials
item: arcgis-enterprise-base-upgrade
version: 4.0.0
latest: true 
---

# Upgrade base ArcGIS Enterprise on single machine

This workflow demonstrates how to upgrade a [base ArcGIS Enterprise](https://enterprise.arcgis.com/en/get-started/latest/windows/base-arcgis-enterprise-deployment.htm) 10.9.1 on a single machine deployed using the [arcgis-enterprise-base]({{ site.baseurl }}/templates/arcgis-enterprise-base/10.9.1.html) deployment template to version 11.0.

The workflow will:

* Upgrade Tomcat web server (on Linux).
* Upgrade Portal for ArcGIS and authorize it with new license.
* Upgrade Portal for ArcGIS Web Styles.
* Upgrade ArcGIS Web Adaptor for Portal for ArcGIS.
* Upgrade ArcGIS Server and authorize it with new license.
* Upgrade ArcGIS Web Adaptor for ArcGIS Server.
* Upgrade ArcGIS Data Store.

Upgrading the base ArcGIS Enterprise deployment may take several hours, during that time the deployment will be unavailable to the users.

Before starting the upgrade process, it's highly recommended to back up ArcGIS Enterprise using the [webgisdr](https://enterprise.arcgis.com/en/portal/latest/administer/windows/create-web-gis-backup.htm) utility. To prevent operating system updates during the upgrade process, it's recommended to install all the recommended/required OS updates before upgrading ArcGIS Enterprise.

**Before upgrading the deployment, you'll need to have obtained:**

* ArcGIS Online account (public or organizational) to download ArcGIS Enterprise setups.
* Authorization files for Portal for ArcGIS 11.0 and ArcGIS Server 11.0.
* The original JSON files used for the initial deployment or the last upgrade.

## Step 1. Upgrade Cinc Client

Upgrade [Cinc Client](https://cinc.sh/start/client/) to version 17 recommended for Chef Cookbooks for ArcGIS 4.0.0.

### On Windows

Start a Windows PowerShell terminal as administrator and run:

```powershell
> . { iwr -useb https://omnitruck.cinc.sh/install.ps1 } | iex; install -version 17
```

### On Linux

Run the following command as superuser:

```bash
$ curl -L https://omnitruck.cinc.sh/install.sh | sudo bash -s -- -v 17
```

## Step 2. Download Chef Cookbooks for ArcGIS v4.0.0

### On Windows

Download the [arcgis-4.0.0-cookbooks.zip](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-cookbook/releases/tag/v4.0.0) archive to the machine.

Delete `C:\cinc\cookbooks` and `C:\cinc\templates` directories and extract the contents of the arcgis-4.0.0-cookbooks.zip archive to `C:\cinc`.

### On Linux

Download the [arcgis-4.0.0-cookbooks.tar.gz](https://github.com/Esri/arcgis-cookbook/releases/tag/v4.0.0) archive to the machine.

Delete `/opt/cinc/cookbooks` and `/opt/cinc/templates` directories and extract the contents of the arcgis-4.0.0-cookbooks.tar.gz archive to `/opt/cinc`.

## Step 3. Download ArcGIS Enterprise 11.0 Setups

This step downloads ArcGIS Enterprise setup archives from https://downloads.arcgis.com to the local ArcGIS software repository.

> Note: If you don't have an ArcGIS Online user account or already have all the setup archives required by the [arcgis-enterprise-base]({{ site.baseurl }}/templates/arcgis-enterprise-base/11.0) 11.0 deployment template in a local or shared directory, then you can skip Step 3 and specify the directory path using the arcgis.repository.archives attribute in the arcgis-enterprise-primary.json file used in Step 4.

### On Windows

Copy file `C:\cinc\templates\arcgis-enterprise-base\11.0\windows\arcgis-enterprise-files.json` to `C:\cinc`.

Edit the `arcgis-enterprise-files.json` file in a text editor:

* arcgis.repository.server.username - Change to the ArcGIS Online user name.
* arcgis.repository.server.password - Change to the ArcGIS Online password.

> Note: The attribute values must be JSON-escaped.

To download the setup archives, run the following commands as administrator:

```shell
> cd C:\cinc
> cinc-client -z -j arcgis-enterprise-files.json
```

### On Linux

Copy file `/opt/cinc/templates/arcgis-enterprise-base/11.0/linux/arcgis-enterprise-files.json` to `/opt/cinc`.

Edit the `arcgis-enterprise-files.json` file in a text editor:

* arcgis.repository.server.username - Change to the ArcGIS Online user name.
* arcgis.repository.server.password - Change to the ArcGIS Online password.

> Note: The attribute values must be JSON-escaped.

To download the setup archives, run the following commands as superuser:

```shell
$ cd /opt/cinc
$ cinc-client -z -j arcgis-enterprise-files.json
```

## Step 4. Upgrade Base ArcGIS Enterprise on the Machine

### On Windows

Copy file `C:\cinc\templates\arcgis-enterprise-base\11.0\windows\arcgis-enterprise-primary.json` to `C:\cinc`.

Use the copy_attributes tool to copy attributes from the original `original\arcgis-enterprise-primary.json` JSON file used for the initial 10.9.1 deployment to the `arcgis-enterprise-primary.json` file of the 11.0 arcgis-enterprise-base template.

```shell
cinc-apply C:\cinc\templates\tools\copy_attributes.rb C:\cinc\original\arcgis-enterprise-primary.json arcgis-enterprise-primary.json
```

Update authorization file paths for Portal for ArcGIS 11.0 and ArcGIS Server 11.0 in `arcgis-enterprise-primary.json`:

* arcgis.portal.authorization_file - Change to Portal for ArcGIS 11.0 authorization file path.
* arcgis.server.authorization_file - Change to ArcGIS Server 11.0 authorization file path.

To start the base ArcGIS Enterprise upgrade, run the following command as administrator:

```shell
> cinc-client -z -j arcgis-enterprise-primary.json
```

### On Linux

Copy file `/opt/cinc/templates/arcgis-enterprise-base/11.0/linux/arcgis-enterprise-primary.json` to `/opt/cinc`.

Use the copy_attributes tool to copy attributes from the original `original/arcgis-enterprise-primary.json` JSON file used for the initial 10.9.1 deployment to the `arcgis-enterprise-primary.json` file of 11.0 arcgis-enterprise-base template.

```shell
cinc-apply /opt/cinc/templates/tools/copy_attributes.rb /opt/cinc/original/arcgis-enterprise-primary.json arcgis-enterprise-primary.json
```

Update authorization file paths for Portal for ArcGIS 11.0 and ArcGIS Server 11.0 in `arcgis-enterprise-primary.json`:

* arcgis.portal.authorization_file - Change to Portal for ArcGIS 11.0 authorization file path.
* arcgis.server.authorization_file - Change to ArcGIS Server 11.0 authorization file path.

To start the base ArcGIS Enterprise upgrade, run the following command as superuser:

```shell
$ cinc-client -z -j arcgis-enterprise-primary.json
```

## Step 5. Clean Up

Once the Chef run successfully completes, save the JSON file in a safe and secure place to use in the future for upgrades or disaster recovery.

The cinc-client reads attributes from the JSON files and caches the attributes inside a 'nodes' folder that resides in the Chef workspace directory. Because some of the attributes in the JSON file may contain sensitive information, such as passwords, it is recommended that you delete the 'nodes' folder in the Chef workspace directory after you complete the last Chef run on the machine.

Chef Cookbooks for ArcGIS extract the setup archives into the local directory specified by the `arcgis.repository.setups` attribute. To save disk space, the archives and setups can be deleted after the machine configuration is completed.

---

Congratulations! You have successfully upgraded the base ArcGIS Enterprise deployment.
