---
layout: default
title: "arcgis-mission cookbook"
category: cookbooks
item: arcgis-mission
version: 3.8.0
latest: false
---

# arcgis-mission cookbook

This cookbook installs and configures ArcGIS Mission Server.

### Supported ArcGIS Mission Server versions

* 10.8
* 10.8.1
* 10.9
* 10.9.1

### Supported ArcGIS software

* ArcGIS Mission Server

### Platforms

* Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 Standard and Datacenter
* Microsoft Windows Server 2016 Standard and Datacenter
* Microsoft Windows Server 2019 Standard and Datacenter
* Microsoft Windows Server 2022 Standard and Datacenter
* Ubuntu Server 18.04 and 20.04 LTS
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server 8
* SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15
* Oracle Linux 8

### Dependencies

The following cookbooks are required:

* arcgis-enterprise
* arcgis-repository

Attributes
----------

* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['url']` = The ArcGIS Mission Server site URL. Default URL is `https://<FQDN of the machine>:20443`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['wa_name']` = Name of ArcGIS Web Adaptor used for ArcGIS Mission Server. Default name is `mission`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['wa_url']` = The URL of the Web Adaptor used for the ArcGIS Mission Server site. Default URL is `https://<FQDN of the machine>/<Mission Server Web Adaptor name>`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['domain_name']` = The ArcGIS Mission Server site domain name. Default domain is FQDN of the machine.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['private_url']` = Private URL of ArcGIS Mission Server. Default URL is `https://<FQDN of the machine>:20443/arcgis`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['web_context_url']` = The web context URL of the ArcGIS Mission Server site. Default URL is `https://<FQDN of the machine>/<Mission Server Web Adaptor name>`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['authorization_file']` = The ArcGIS Mission Server authorization file path.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['authorization_file_version']` = The ArcGIS Mission Server authorization file version. Default value is `node['arcgis']['server']['authorization_file_version']`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['install_dir']` = ArcGIS Mission Server installation directory. By default, ArcGIS Mission Server is installed to  `%ProgramW6432%\ArcGIS\Mission` on Windows machines and to `/home/arcgis` on Linux machines.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['directories_root']` = The root ArcGIS Mission Server site's server directory location. The default value is `C:\arcgismissionserver\directories` on Windows and `/<ArcGIS Mission Server install directory>/missionserver/usr/directories` on Linux.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['config_store_type']` = The ArcGIS Mission Server configuration store type `<FILESYSTEM|AMAZON|AZURE>`. Default value is `FILESYSTEM`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['config_store_connection_string']` = The configuration store location for the ArcGIS Mission Server site. By default, the configuration store is created in the local directory `C:\arcgismissionserver\config-store` on Windows and `/<install directory>/usr/config-store` on Linux.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['config_store_class_name']` = The ArcGIS Mission Server configuration store persistence class name. Default value is `com.esri.arcgis.carbon.persistence.impl.filesystem.FSConfigPersistence`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['log_level']` = ArcGIS Mission Server log level. Default value is `WARNING`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['log_dir']` = ArcGIS Mission Server log directory. Default value is `C:\arcgismissionserver\logs` on Windows and `/<install directory>/usr/logs` on Linux.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['max_log_file_age']` = ArcGIS Mission Server maximum log file age. Default value is `90`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['setup_archive']` = Path to the ArcGIS Mission Server setup archive. Default value depends on the `node['arcgis']['version']` attribute value.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['setup']` = The location of the ArcGIS Mission Server setup executable. Default location is `%USERPROFILE%\Documents\ArcGIS10.9.1\MissionServer\Setup.exe` on Windows and `/opt/arcgis/10.9.1/MissionServer/Setup` on Linux.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['configure_autostart']` = If set to true, on Linux ArcGIS Mission Server is configured to start with the operating system. Default value is `true`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['admin_username']` = Primary ArcGIS Mission Server administrator user name. Default user name is `siteadmin`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['admin_password']` = Primary ArcGIS Mission Server administrator password. Default value is `change.it`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['primary_server_url']` = The URL of the existing ArcGIS Mission Server site to join, in the format `https://missionserver.domain.com:20443/arcgis/admin`. Default URL `nil`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['install_system_requirements']` = Enable system-level configuration for ArcGIS Mission Server. Default value is `true`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['ports']` = Ports to open for ArcGIS Mission Servier in the Windows firewall. Default is `20443,20300,20301,20302,20158,20159,20160`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['system_properties']` = ArcGIS Mission Server system properties. Default value is `{}`.
* `node['arcgis']['mission_server']['hostname']` = Host name or IP address of the ArcGIS Mission Server machine. Default value is  `''`.

Recipes
-------

### arcgis-mission::default

Installs and configures ArcGIS Mission Server.

### arcgis-mission::federation

Federates ArcGIS Mission Server with Portal for ArcGIS and enables the Mission Server role.

# arcgis-mission::fileserver

Configures shared directories for ArcGIS Mission Server on a file server machine.

### arcgis-mission::install_server

Installs ArcGIS Mission Server.

### arcgis-mission::install_server_wa

Installs ArcGIS Web Adaptor for ArcGIS Mission Server.

### arcgis-mission::server

Installs and configures ArcGIS Mission Server.

### arcgis-mission::server_node

Joins additional machines to the ArcGIS Mission Server site.

### arcgis-mission::server_wa

Configures ArcGIS Web Adaptor for ArcGIS Mission Server.

### arcgis-mission::uninstall_server

Uninstalls ArcGIS Mission Server.

### arcgis-mission::uninstall_server_wa

Uninstalls ArcGIS Web Adaptor for ArcGIS Mission Server.

### arcgis-mission::unregister_machine

Unregisters server machine from the ArcGIS Mission Server site.

### arcgis-mission::unregister_server_wa

Unregisters all ArcGIS Mission Server Web Adaptors.

