---
layout: default
title: "esri-tomcat cookbook"
category: cookbooks
item: esri-tomcat
version: 0.1.9
latest: false
---

# esri-tomcat cookbook

This cookbook installs and configures Apache Tomcat for using with ArcGIS Web Adaptor.

### Platforms

* Ubuntu Server 18.04 and 20.04 LTS
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server 8
* SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15
* Oracle Linux 8

### Dependencies

The following cookbooks are required:
* tomcat
* openssl

Attributes
----------

#### General

* `node['tomcat']['version']` = Tomcat version to install. Default is `9.0.48`.
* `node['tomcat']['instance_name']` = Tomcat instance name. Default is `arcgis`.
* `node['tomcat']['install_path']` = Tomcat installation directory. Default is `/opt/tomcat_INSTANCENAME_VERSION`.
* `node['tomcat']['tarball_path']` = Tomcat tarball archive path. Default is `<Chef file cache path>/apache-tomcat-<tomcat version>.tar.gz`.
* `node['tomcat']['verify_checksum']` = Verify checksum of downloaded Tomcat tarball. Default value is `true`.
* `node['tomcat']['forward_ports']` = If set to `true`, default recipe includes 'firewalld' or 'iptables' recipe. Default value is `true`.
* `node['tomcat']['firewalld']['init_cmd']` = The firewalld initialization command. The default command is `firewall-cmd --zone=public --permanent --add-port=0-65535/tcp`.

#### SSL/TLS

* `node['tomcat']['keystore_file']` = Optional: Path to the keystore file. If not provided, a new file and a self-signed certificate will be created.
* `node['tomcat']['keystore_password']` = Optional: Password to the keystore.
* `node['tomcat']['ssl_enabled_protocols']` = SSL protocols of the HTTPS listener. Default is `TLSv1.3,TLSv1.2`.
* `node['tomcat']['domain_name']` = Domain name for generated self-signed SSL certificate. Default is `Fully Qualified Domain Name`.

#### OpenJDK

* `node['java']['version']` = Major Java version. Default version is `11`.
* `node['java']['tarball_uri']` = JDK tarball URI. Default URI is `https://download.java.net/java/ga/jdk11/openjdk-11_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz`.
* `node['java']['tarball_path']` = JDK tarball local path. Default path is `<file_cache_path>/openjdk-11_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz`.
* `node['java']['install_path']` = JDK installation path. Default path is `/opt`.


Recipes
-------

### esri-tomcat::default

Installs and configures Apache Tomcat application server for ArcGIS Web Adaptor. 

If the node['tomcat']['forward_ports'] attribute is `true` (default value), the recipe also configures port forwarding (80 to 8080 and 443 to 8443) using the iptables or firewalld recipes.

### esri-tomcat::install

Installs Apache Tomcat application server.

### esri-tomcat::configure_ssl

Configures HTTPS listener in Apache Tomcat application server.

### esri-tomcat::iptables

Installs iptables and configures HTTP(S) port forwarding (80 to 8080 and 443 to 8443).

### esri-tomcat::firewalld

Installs FirewallD and configures HTTP(S) port forwarding (80 to 8080 and 443 to 8443).

> If the firewalld service was started by the recipe, the recipe runs the script specified by `node['tomcat']['firewalld']['init_cmd']`, which, by default, opens all the TCP ports on the machine.

### esri-tomcat::openjdk

Installs OpenJDK for Apache Tomcat from a local or remote tarball.
